\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8

@ifnottex
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifnottex
@titlepage
@title Join the Vue.js Community!
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top Join the Vue.js Community!

Vue's community is growing incredibly fast and if you're reading this,
there's a good chance you're ready to join it. So@dots{} welcome!

Now we'll answer both what the community can do for you and what you can
do for the community.

@node Resources
@section Resources
@anchor{#resources}

@menu
* Code of Conduct::
* Get Support::
* Explore the Ecosystem::
@end menu

@node Code of Conduct
@subsection Code of Conduct
@anchor{#code-of-conduct}
Our @uref{/coc,Code of Conduct} is a guide to make it easier to enrich
all of us and the technical communities in which we participate.

@node Get Support
@subsection Get Support
@anchor{#get-support}
@itemize
@item
@uref{https://forum.vuejs.org/,Forum}: The best place to ask questions
and get answers about Vue and its ecosystem.
@item
@uref{https://chat.vuejs.org/,Chat}: A place for Vue devs to meet and
chat in real time.
@item
@uref{https://events.vuejs.org/meetups,Meetups}: Want to find local
Vue.js enthusiasts like yourself? Interested in becoming a community
leader? We have the help and support you need right here!
@item
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs,GitHub}: If you have a bug to report or
feature to request, that's what the GitHub issues are for. We also
welcome pull requests!
@end itemize

@node Explore the Ecosystem
@subsection Explore the Ecosystem
@anchor{#explore-the-ecosystem}
@itemize
@item
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/awesome-vue,The Awesome Vue Page}: See
what other awesome resources have been published by other awesome
people.
@item
@uref{https://forum.vuejs.org/c/show-and-tell,The ``Show and Tell''
Subforum}: Another great place to check out what others have built with
and for the growing Vue ecosystem.
@end itemize

@node What You Can Do
@section What You Can Do
@anchor{#what-you-can-do}

@menu
* Contribute Code::
* Share and Build Your Experience::
* Translate Docs::
* Become a Community Leader::
@end menu

@node Contribute Code
@subsection Contribute Code
@anchor{#contribute-code}
As with any project, there are rules to contributing. To ensure that we
can help you or accept your pull request as quickly as possible, please
read
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/vue/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md,the
contributing guide}.

After that, you'll be ready to contribute to Vue's core repositories:

@itemize
@item
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/vue,vue}: the core library
@item
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/vuex,vuex}: Flux-inspired state
management
@item
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/vue-router,vue-router}: a routing system
for SPAs
@end itemize

@dots{}as well as many smaller official
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs,companion libraries}.

@node Share and Build Your Experience
@subsection Share (and Build) Your Experience
@anchor{#share-and-build-your-experience}
Apart from answering questions and sharing resources in the forum and
chat, there are a few other less obvious ways to share and expand what
you know:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Develop learning materials.} It's often said that the best way
to learn is to teach. If there's something interesting you're doing with
Vue, strengthen your expertise by writing a blog post, developing a
workshop, or even publishing a gist that you share on social media.
@item
@strong{Watch a repo you care about.} This will send you notifications
whenever there's activity in that repository, giving you insider
knowledge about ongoing discussions and upcoming features. It's a
fantastic way to build expertise so that you're eventually able to help
address issues and pull requests.
@end itemize

@node Translate Docs
@subsection Translate Docs
@anchor{#translate-docs}
Vue has already spread across the globe, with even the core team in at
least half a dozen timezones. @uref{https://forum.vuejs.org/,The forum}
includes 7 languages and counting and many of our docs have
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=vuejs.org,actively-maintained
translations}. We're very proud of Vue's international reach, but we can
do even better.

I hope that right now, you're reading this sentence in your preferred
language. If not, would you like to help us get there?

If so, please feel free to fork the repo for
@uref{https://github.com/vuejs/vuejs.org/,these docs} or for any other
officially maintained documentation, then start translating. Once you've
made some progress, open an issue or pull request in the main repo and
we'll put out a call for more contributors to help you out.

@node Become a Community Leader
@subsection Become a Community Leader
@anchor{#become-a-community-leader}
There's a lot you can do to help Vue grow in your community:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Present at your local meetup.} Whether it's giving a talk or
running a workshop, you can bring a lot of value to your community by
helping both new and experienced Vue developers continue to grow.
@item
@strong{Start your own meetup.} If there's not already a Vue meetup in
your area, you can start your own! Use the
@uref{https://events.vuejs.org/resources/#getting-started,resources at
events.vuejs.org} to help you succeed!
@item
@strong{Help meetup organizers.} There can never be too much help when
it comes to running an event, so offer a hand to help out local
organizers to help make every event a success.
@end itemize

If you have any questions on how you can get more involved with your
local Vue community, reach out at
[@@Vuejs_Events](https://www.twitter.com/vuejs_events)!

@bye
